Add How To Hetzner Cloud Terraform Provider (#25)
hetzneronline/community-content: tutorials/hcloud-howto-terraform.md

  * Visit Hetzner Cloud Console at [https://console.hetzner.cloud](https://console.hetzner.cloud), select your project, and create a new API Token.
* [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) is installed and you have basic knowledge about it.

 We will ...

 1. learn the basic usage
 2. create a server
 3. create a volume and attach it to a server

 ## Steps

 **Basic Usage**

First of all, we create a new directory which will contain our Terraform configuration. We will call it `terraform` and create a new file there called `hcloud.tf`. You can name the file as you like.

```bash
mkdir terraform 
touch hcloud.tf
```

You can now edit the `hcloud.tf` with a text editor of your choice. 

You can find the complete documentation about the Terraform provider in the [Terraform documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/hcloud/).

We will first copy the `Example Usage` from the documentation.

```hcl
# Set the variable value in *.tfvars file
# or using -var="hcloud_token=..." CLI option
variable "hcloud_token" {}

# Configure the Hetzner Cloud Provider
provider "hcloud" {
  token = "${var.hcloud_token}"
}

# Create a server
resource "hcloud_server" "web" {
  # ...
}
```

> I will show you, what the specific parts mean:

Reviewer: It's kinda inconsistent. The general theme is `We will...`.
```suggestion
We will see, what the specific parts mean:
```

```hcl
# Set the variable value in *.tfvars file

> # or using -var="hcloud_token=..." CLI option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# or using the -var="hcloud_token=..." CLI option
```

variable "hcloud_token" {}
```

> We simply tell Terraform, that we will give it a variable called `hcloud_token`. You can specify the value of this variable by using a CLI option or by using a `terraform.tfvars` file. In this tutorial, we will use a `config.tfvars`-file which contains the token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We simply tell Terraform, that we will give it a variable called `hcloud_token`. You can specify the value of this variable by using a CLI option or by using a `terraform.tfvars` file. In this tutorial, we will use the `config.tfvars`-file. This file will contain our token.
```

```hcl
# Configure the Hetzner Cloud Provider
provider "hcloud" {
  token = "${var.hcloud_token}"
}
```

> We tell Terraform, that we want to use the provider `hcloud`. Terraform will download the latest version of the provider plugin on `terraform init`. We also configure the `hcloud` provider plugin with the variable `hcloud_token`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We tell Terraform, that we want to use the provider `hcloud`. Terraform will download the latest version of the provider plugin up on `terraform init`. We also configure the `hcloud` provider plugin with the variable `hcloud_token`.
```

Author: Why should we add an `up` there? Terraform will download the provider plugin, not upload.

```hcl
# Create a server
resource "hcloud_server" "web" {
  # ...
}
```

> This short snippet does basically nothing. It just defines a resource from type `hcloud_server` called `web`. But it won't work, because we didn't terraform which server should be created. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This short snippet does basically nothing. It just defines a resource from type `hcloud_server` called `web`. But it won't work, because we didn't tell terraform which server should be created. 
```

So now you should create a `terraform.tfvars` -file which will contain the following content:

```
hcloud_token = "YOUR_API_TOKEN"
```

> After this you should run `terraform init` and get a similar response like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this we will run `terraform init`. You should get a similar response to that below:
```

```
* provider.hcloud: version = "~> 1.8"

Terraform has been successfully initialized!
```

Congratulations! You have successfully installed the `hcloud` provider plugin!

**Create a server**

> You have now a basic overview of the `hcloud` Terraform provider, but of course, you want a more detailed view. So let's create a server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have now a basic overview of the `hcloud` Terraform provider. But of course, you want a more detailed view. So let's create a server.
```

> Open your `hcloud.tf` file and go to the `resource "hcloud_server" "web"` section. Replace the section with  the following snippet:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open your `hcloud.tf` file and go to the `resource "hcloud_server" "web"` section. Replace the section with the following snippet:
```

> Open your `hcloud.tf` file and go to the `resource "hcloud_server" "web"` section. Replace the section with the following snippet:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We open our `hcloud.tf` file and go to the `resource "hcloud_server" "web"` section. We will replace it with the following snippet:
```

```hcl
# Create a server
resource "hcloud_server" "web" {
  name        = "my-server"
  image       = "ubuntu-18.04"
  server_type = "cx11"
}
```
This will create a new server with the name `my-server`, the image `ubuntu-18.04` and the server type `cx11`. When you now run `terraform apply` and confirm the message by typing `yes` ENTER, you should see a freshly created CX11 server in the [Hetzner Cloud Console](https://console.hetzner.cloud)!
You should get a similar response like below:

```
hcloud_server.web: Creating...
  backup_window: "" => "<computed>"
  backups:       "" => "false"
  datacenter:    "" => "<computed>"
  image:         "" => "ubuntu-18.04"

>   ipv4_address:  "" => "<computed>"

Reviewer: Shouldn't that be consistent with the IP placeholders used in #7 ?

Author: Nope. The placeholder above is the output from terraform. If we add our placeholder there, it would not be a correct example.

  ipv6_address:  "" => "<computed>"
  ipv6_network:  "" => "<computed>"
  keep_disk:     "" => "false"
  location:      "" => "<computed>"
  name:          "" => "my-server"
  server_type:   "" => "cx11"
  status:        "" => "<computed>"
hcloud_server.web: Still creating... (10s elapsed)
hcloud_server.web: Still creating... (20s elapsed)
hcloud_server.web: Still creating... (30s elapsed)
hcloud_server.web: Creation complete after 30s (ID: 2035350)

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

Cool! You created your first Hetzner Cloud server with Terraform! You can now run `terraform destroy` and confirm this too, to remove the server.

> You should get a similar response like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should get a response similar to this:
```

```
hcloud_server.web: Refreshing state... (ID: 2035350)

An execution plan has been generated and is shown below.
Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
  - destroy

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  - hcloud_server.web

Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 1 to destroy.

Do you really want to destroy all resources?
  Terraform will destroy all your managed infrastructure, as shown above.
  There is no undo. Only 'yes' will be accepted to confirm.

  Enter a value: yes

hcloud_server.web: Destroying... (ID: 2035350)
hcloud_server.web: Destruction complete after 0s

Destroy complete! Resources: 1 destroyed.
```

**Create a volume and attach it to a server** 

> You have learned how to create a resource. Now I want to show you how easily you can create a bunch of resources and combine them. We will use a basic CX11 server and a volume in this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now have learned how to create a resource. Now I want to show you how easily you can create a bunch of resources and combine them. We will use a basic CX11 server and a volume in this step.
```

First of all, you should open your `hcloud.tf` file in an editor of your choice. 

You should see something like this:

```hcl
# Set the variable value in *.tfvars file

> # or using -var="hcloud_token=..." CLI option

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# or using the -var="hcloud_token=..." CLI option
```

variable "hcloud_token" {}

# Configure the Hetzner Cloud Provider
provider "hcloud" {
  token = "${var.hcloud_token}"
}

# Create a server
resource "hcloud_server" "web" {
  name        = "my-server"
  image       = "ubuntu-18.04"
  server_type = "cx11"
}
```

Now we want to add a volume to this section, so we need to add a new `resource` block:

```hcl
# Create a volume
resource "hcloud_volume" "storage" {
  name       = "my-volume"
  size       = 50
  server_id  = "${hcloud_server.web.id}"
  automount  = true
  format     = "ext4"
}
```

> This short snipped will create a new `volume` called `my-volume` with a size of `50 GB` and automatically mount the volume on the server and format it as `ext4`. We specified too, that it should be attached to the server `"${hcloud_server.web.id}"`, which will result in the ID of our server `my-server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This short snipped will create a new `volume` called `my-volume` with a size of `50 GB`. It will automatically mount the volume on the server and format it as `ext4`. We specified too, that it should be attached to the server `"${hcloud_server.web.id}"`, which will result in the ID of our server `my-server`.
```

When you now run `terraform plan`, you should see a similar response like below:

```
An execution plan has been generated and is shown below.
Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols:
  + create

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  + hcloud_server.web
      id:            <computed>
      backup_window: <computed>
      backups:       "false"
      datacenter:    <computed>
      image:         "ubuntu-18.04"
      ipv4_address:  <computed>
      ipv6_address:  <computed>
      ipv6_network:  <computed>
      keep_disk:     "false"
      location:      <computed>
      name:          "my-server"
      server_type:   "cx11"
      status:        <computed>

  + hcloud_volume.volume
      id:            <computed>
      automount:     "true"
      linux_device:  <computed>
      location:      <computed>
      name:          "my-volume"
      server_id:     "0"
      size:          "50"

Plan: 2 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.
```

> When you now `terraform apply` the changes, you can see a volume, with 50 GB storage, which is attached to your server in the [Hetzner Cloud Console](https://console.hetzner.cloud).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you now run `terraform apply` to apply the changes, you can see a volume, with 50 GB storage, which is attached to your server in the [Hetzner Cloud Console](https://console.hetzner.cloud).
```

Reviewer 2: I am not quite sure that sentence is as intended from you. Feel free to ignore this if it was already written as you wanted.

> When you now run `terraform apply` to apply the changes, you can see a volume, with 50 GB storage, which is attached to your server in the [Hetzner Cloud Console](https://console.hetzner.cloud).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you now run `terraform apply` to apply those changes, you can see a volume with 50 GB storage. This is attached to your server in the [Hetzner Cloud Console](https://console.hetzner.cloud).
```
